Title: How to become a Street Photographer?
Date: 2018-03-12
Tags: Tutorial, Street Photography, Guide
Permalink: So-you-want-to-become-a-street-photographer
Author: Ryan Richards
Thumbnail: /_images/winogrand.png
Description: So you want to be a street photographer? Here are 5 tips to help you get started. 

#So you want to become a Street Photographer?
##1. Learn your camera
Learning how to operate your camera efficiently before starting to work on the street is important. Things happen very quickly and in order to capture those fleeting moments, its important to know you camera is setup in the best way for you to focus on the composition and story. 

This might mean setting your camera to a semi-automatic mode. I know, I know when we first get into photography all we hear is "learn to use manual", "You're only a professional photographer if you use manual mode". In this case however its more important to actually just start shooting, so setting your camera to AV mode, using a high aperture like f8 and allowing the camera to work out the ISO and shutter speed can help build your confidence. 

http://www.adrianocascio.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/bd60e54c414aa9b71c72bf0b355be3df.jpg

##2. Bring your camera everywhere
Even if it's just in your bag, knowing you have the ability to shoot at anytime is very freeing, if something catches your eye on the way to work, you have your camera with you and can take that opportunity to shoot. 

##3. Limit your gear
Don't bring all those accessories with you. You just need one camera, one lens. This helps you keep a clear your mind, the camera can become a  companion to your day and not a burden. 

##4. Stick with one focal length
I'm very passionate about consistency. Sticking to one focal length is the best way to start growing your style. Try shooting with a wider lens, even if its just for a month. It will train you to get closer to your subjects and make your images feel more intimate and real. 

When I first started shooting street I was using a 50mm lens on a crop sensor camera. Great for portraits but terrible for street photography, my images felt disconnected and impersonal. Eventually I was able to save up and buy my first Leica, an M4-P with 35mm lens. I shot with a 35mm lens for the next 3 years, including a brief stint as a wedding photographer. It was my go-to lens, I knew exactly how the picture was going to look before I even raised the camera to my eye. 

Now I shoot with a 28mm lens. It's brought me one step closer to my subjects on the street and only furthered the personal and intimate style I'm searching for in my photography. 

##5. Get over the fear
One of the biggest hurdles facing you, is your fear of being shouted at or attacked while shooting on the street. I've never experienced any awkward or dangerous situations whilst shooting. I think the best thing to do is be direct, thankful and friendly. When you take a photo, say thank you and keep moving. However be mindful and aware of the people and events around you, try not to be disrespectful or sneaky. Be bold and confident that your documenting the world around you as it is. 